Now that we worked on our page quite a bit,
let's go back to some theory in quotation marks because we'll of course still stay in a web project
and move things around and let's learn how we can actually position the elements in a grid in case we're
not happy with the default positioning.
So back in our project, right now we have a certain positioning of the elements in a grid that we never questioned.
They're always taking the full size of their cell, both on the horizontal and the vertical axis,
they always stretch the full cell
and there of course maybe the behavior you want but sometimes, it's not what you want and you got a couple
of properties that help you with positioning elements in the grid. You add them on the grid container,
so on the container class selector in our case here. The first one is justify items,
if you set this to center, let's see what happens.
Let's reload and now what we can see if we turn on that grid inspection again, is that in our grid cells
or the grid tracks actually, so the areas where a certain element is positioned in, like the green element
here actually has the first row,
don't forget, now it's positioned in the center of that area, so the green element is in the center of
its row,
the red element is in the center of its two cells here where it's assigned to and the yellow element is
just in the center of its cell, the blue element again is in the center of its entire track.
So this is now what justify items does,
it positions the elements in their grid tracks,
so in their areas
so to say. We also can assign a value of start there,
now this moves them to the start of their respective track,
so green and blue are at the start of their rows, red is at the start of its area
and yellow is at the start of its cell, since it's only assigned to a single cell
and we also got end of course which moves them to the end. And important, start and end does not mean left
and right, it means start and end depending on the read direction of the browser the users use,
so if someone is accessing the page with settings set to right-to-left reading, then start will
actually be on the right instead of on the left,
that's just a little side note.
So this is justify items, now
the default is stretch.
So you don't need to set this,
this is the default behavior you saw at the beginning.
Now this was the positioning within their rows so to say,
now if you want to position them within their columns, you got align items,
now this can also be set to center for example. If you set align items to center and you reload,
now the elements are vertically centered in their tracks,
so in their columns basically. And of course here, you also got start as an option,
start moves them to the start of their row or of their area and you got end too,
end will of course simply move them to the very end of their row.
And now you might already have guessed it, the default here also is stretch,
you don't need to set this, this is what you started with.